# IOT-Device-Identification
Recognition of IOT Devices using Machine Learning Techniques 
## Abstract 
By 2030, the total number of Internet of Things devices is estimated to reach 75 billion. For network managers, the increasing IoT sector presents new issues. With such a wide range of IoT devices (thermostats, cameras, smart bulbs, and so on), device recognition is critical. Indeed, with the rise of IoT viruses like Mirai, it's become more important than ever to secure IoT networks. Mirai infected around 600,000 devices around the world at its peak. DDoS attacks were the main purpose of the infected machines. Knowing the sort of device connected to the network will aid in enforcing security in this situation. Knowing that a device is a security camera from a specific brand, for example, can assist the network administrator in creating filtering rules that prevent the camera from doing anything other than what it was designed to do. Device type recognition can also be used to prevent susceptible devices from connecting to the network.

A device that is intended to accomplish a specific task is defined as an IoT device. IoT devices, unlike laptops, desktop computers, and smartphones, execute extremely particular jobs. A smart plug or a smart lamp, for example, can be turned on or off. One can also control the brightness of a smart bulb. A smart plug or a smart light, on the other hand, are not designed to watch videos on YouTube or write emails. As a result, the network traffic of IoT devices follows a predictable pattern. Machine learning techniques are highly adapted to the generated network traffic since it is very predictable.

We offer a method for recognizing IoT devices by analyzing the generated network traffic in this research. To do this, raw network data is preprocessed to extract bidirectional flows defined by characteristics like the size of the first N packets transmitted and received, as well as the inter- arrival intervals. We constructed an experimental smart home network comprised of four devices to generate network traffic data due to a lack of publicly available data. Then, using our dataset, we use t-SNE to display and understand the data. Furthermore, the visual clusters acquired demonstrate the efficiency of our chosen set of attributes in distinguishing between various IoT devices.

On our test set for the Gradient Boosting Classifier, we were able to predict which device generated network traffic with an accuracy of up to 90%.
